how to grill the perfect steak before
you throw your next steak on the
barbecue see what grilling experts do to
ensure that it turns out tender and
juicy you will need a gas or electric
grill or charcoal soapy water a brush
and a sponge cooking oil good beef paper
towels olive oil salt and pepper tongs a
meat thermometer and aluminum foil
optional lighter fluid marinade and a
knife step 1
clean the inside of your grill and the
grate with soap a brush and a sponge and
then wipe or spray it with cooking oil
this prevents the steak from sticking to
the grate and tearing which will cause
it to lose juices step 2
start with good grain-fed beef no matter
the cattle breed USDA prime grain fed
beef is the highest rating followed by
choice ribeye New York Strip tenderloin
top sirloin porterhouse and t-bone are
all good cuts for grilling look for
evenly distributed marbling the white
streaks that indicate fat without it
your steak won't be as tender or tasty
don't grill a steak less than 1 inch
thick it will dry out easily
the ideal grilling width is one to one
and a half inches thick step 3 take
steaks out of the refrigerator 30
minutes before cooking to allow them to
come to room temperature step 4
if you're using a gas or electric grill
turn it to 300 degrees Fahrenheit or set
it on medium and let it heat up for at
least 15 minutes with the hood closed
step 5
if you're using charcoal set the
briquettes over three-quarters of the
bowls so they are about three times
higher on one side
on the other leave 1/4 of the grill
empty which provides an area with less
heat in case your fire gets too intense
use lighter fluid to start the fire and
wait until all of the coals are lit
before you put anything on the grill
step 6
Pat the steaks with a paper towel to
absorb moisture then brush both sides
with olive oil and liberally sprinkle
them with fresh pepper and kosher salt
if you like to marinate your steaks
beforehand keep in mind that the acidity
and most marinades makes me cook faster
step 7
cook the steaks evenly flipping them
four to six minutes after placing them
on the grill use tongs or a spatula to
flip steaks a fork will pierce the meat
releasing juices
step 8 after you flip them wait 2 to 3
minutes then check each steaks
temperature by picking it up with tongs
and inserting the meat thermometer into
the steaks side until it reaches the
center a reading of 115 means the steak
will be rare when you serve it 125 to
130 is medium-rare 140 to 145 is medium
150 to 155 is medium well and more than
155 is well-done you can also make a
small incision to peek inside meat
continues cooking for a few minutes
after you remove it from the heat
step 9 remove the steaks and let them
rest loosely covered with foil for about
5 minutes before serving to allow the
juices to redistribute throughout the
meat for best results let the steaks
rest with the side that was most
recently on the grill face-up now dig in
and enjoy
did you know world-famous Wagyu Kobe
beef steaks are lower in saturated fat
and higher in monounsaturated fat the
kind that's good for you than some other
types of steaks
[Music]